How to Make Eclairs
Ingredients for the cream filling :
500 ml (2 cups) milk
1 vanilla pod
110 g (½ cup) caster sugar
6 egg yolks
3 tbsp cornflour
Ingredients for the pastry :
125 ml (½ cup) water
125 ml (½ cup) milk
110 g (½ cup) butter, cut into small dices
½ tsp salt
1 tsp sugar
150 g (1 cup) flour
4 eggs
Ingredients for the egg wash :
1 egg yolk mixed with 1 tbsp milk
Ingredients for the topping :
100 g dark chocolate
2½ tbsp butter
60g (½ cup) powdered sugar, sifted
2 tbsp water
Direction for the cream filling :
Put the milk, half the sugar and vanilla seeds along with the pod in a saucepan and heat over medium heat.
Beat the egg yolks with half the sugar in a large bowl.
Add the cornflour into the egg and sugar mixture.
Pour half of the hot milk over the egg mixture and whisk to combine
then pour this mixture back into the saucepan with the remaining milk
and whisk over medium heat until the cream is thick.
Spread the cream into a deep bottom dish
and cover with plastic wrap directly over the top of the cream to prevent skin forming.
Place the cream in the fridge and let it cool completely.
Direction for the pastry :
Place the milk, water, butter, salt and sugar in a saucepan over medium heat.
Stir until the butter is completely melted, making sure it doesn’t come to a boil.
Turn the heat up and bring to a boil then take the pan off the heat, add the flour and stir with a wooden spoon.
When the flour is completely mixed, put the saucepan back over medium heat and cook the dough for 1-2 minutes to dry out, stirring constantly.
The dough should no longer stick to the border of the pan.
Transfer the dough in a large bowl and spread it over the borders of the bowl and let it cool for a bit for a minute.
Add the eggs one by one into the dough and stir to combine.
Put the dough into a piping bag and pipe the eclairs on a baking tray lined with parchment paper.
They should be about 6 cm long and 2 cm wide.
Brush the top of the eclairs with the egg wash.
Bake the eclairs in a preheated oven at 190°C for 30 minutes.
Direction for the chocolate icing :
Heat the chocolate over a bain-marie
Add the sugar and butter and stir until smooth.
Remove form the heat and add the water, little by little.
Prepare the eclairs :
Make 2 small holes at the bottom of the eclairs using a nozzle.
Whisk the pastry cream a little then put it into a piping bag and fill the eclairs through the holes.
Dip the top of the eclairs into the chocolate icing and keep in the fridge until ready to serve.